Here I have imported the e-commerce application into IntelliJ.
Here I see the SRC folder,
and then there is a target folder,
I'm going to focus on the SRC folder which
contains all the code that we need to take a look at right now.
Under main, you see the java folder,
and under that, there is a demo folder.
Now the demo folder contains three parts: controllers,
model, and the main application.
So let's start with the main application.
This main application talks about
the annotation SpringBootApplication which tells
us that this application is built using Spring Boot.
There is also a JpaRepository path
and an EntityScan which is the same as the ComponentScan;
however, it's for entities.
So the Controller folder has four different controllers: UserController,
OrderController, ItemController, and CartController.
Now this is an e-commerce application.
The e-commerce application has a user and has certain APIs related to the user,
OrderController has certain APIs related to the order,
ItemController as a name suggests has APIs related to the item,
and CartController has APIs related to the cart.
In terms of functionality,
a user will have a cart,
and the cart will contain certain items that will make up an order.
Once you submit the order,
that user has an order associated with it and
that order can be retrieved when you access that user.
Like any e-commerce application that you might have used in the past,
under the model, we have two folders: requests and persistence.
The requests section has two requests,
one is a CreateUser.
As a name suggests, this is what we will use in order to create
the user and modify the cart which has as I've mentioned,
a username, an itemID, and a quantity.
That is what your cart will have,
so this is what you would use in order to modify the cart.
Let's talk about these entities quickly.
So cart contains an ID,
and it has a list of items, and it has a user.
Item has an id,
a name, a price, and a description.
So let's consider the example of let's say a laptop.
Laptop has an id,
it has the name,
it has a certain price,
and then has a description.
A user has an ID which is a unique identifier,
it has a username for example,
my name Sareeta could be a username,
and it has a cart.
Of course, there are getters and setters in each of these entities,
and the user order contains the ID
which is the identifier also will be helping for linking,
the list of items and the user.
Under a repository, we have CartRepository which extends the JpaRepository,
ItemRepository which has a method to find by name,
OrderRepository which also has a method to find the user,
UseRepository which has a method find by username.
We would use all these in combination to demonstrate a functionality.
By functionality what I mean is let's say that we want to create a user,
that is one functionality.
Let's use a rest client of your choice in order to see how these APIs work in real.
So for doing that,
I have already started the server.
This is my server logs,
and I'm pretty sure by now,
you already understand how to start the server,
nothing bad, you click on this button to rerun,
or you might just have a Run button if you haven't started the server.
So again, this code is going to be available to you,
and the link will be provided to you under the video.
Let's look at the rest client of my choice is Postman,
I have created a collection.
I am pretty sure that by now,
you would also know how to create a collection,
and how to save all your requests for quick use.
Let's start with Create a User.
Now Create a User basically will just create this user with the username Sareeta,
and if this is successful,
you will see a 200 okay which is your HTTP response code,
and that is an okay response,
which means the user was successfully created.
I'm pretty sure you already know that by now.
So here we go,
and let's look at this.
So as you see,
there was an ID assigned to it,
and the username that was persisted.
Now something that I need to mention here is for this particular application,
we are using each H2 database which is
an in-memory database so that every time we restart the server,
it will start from fresh because it's in-memory,
and nothing gets saved in an actual database like
SQL or NoSQL databases like Cosmos, Mongo, and others.
So this was already successful,
which means now I have a user called Sareeta in my H2 in-memory database.
Now let me run this API which is getUser.
Now as you see,
this was a user created,
and this is going to be the exact name that I would enter here,
and I run this,
and what this does is now it fetched my user with the ID from the H2 database.
If you want to take a look at how I constructed this end point,
now this is an end point,
let me take you back to the IDE which is IntelliJ.
So I'm going to refer to the controller class user,
and the request mapping here is API user,
and I am running the server on localhost:8080 port that is
the default port that the application got started on since I used the Tomcat server.
Here is API user and the exact endpoint was create.
As you see, this was a post mapping.
So the HTTP verb with post,
and the end point is create,
so I added create to end of it,
and I post requests in terms of the header.
One thing that you need to add is content type which is application/json.
Otherwise, what you can do is let me show that to you.
I am going to create one more.
Let me duplicate this,
or let me just create one more request.
Here when I create a request,
it gives me the body,
and as I told you, this is a post.
Here I use raw and under here,
it allows you to define what is the content type,
and I'm going to pick application JSON.
You can either add it to the header,
or by default from here,
you can add that as well.
So I added that as well in order to make this particular request successful.